# pandas-challenge
helping the school board and mayor make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities

* This Dataset provided a lot of information to help with finding the information the school board requires. We were able to seperate the data based off of the schoools, the individual students, by grade level, by size and by per capita income. One of the biggest immediate shocks for me was that the percentage of students who were passing both math and reading is 65%. By our own standards we are failing our students because we fall below the passing mark with number of kids passing. This is far too low and so we need to better utilize our funding to make sure that we get those numbers up. later on I will go into more detail on where we need to distribute funding and how, but to continue summarizing the data, Charter schools are outpacing the District schools by a wide margin. They don't necessarily have more funding per student and so there must be other factors that contribute to the success that the charter schools are having.   
 
* The first clear comparison is between the Charter Schools and the District Schools. When looking at the "Top Schools" based off of % of Students passing both math and reading, the top 5 are Charter Schools while when looking at the "Bottom Schools" the bottom 5 are District schools. This clearly puts the charter schools above the district schools. It is clear which are successful and which are not. 

* The second conclusion from this data is that the more money spent per student does not necessarily equate to the success of the school. The schools spending less than 585.00 per student have an overall passing rate of 90% while the schools spending between 645 and 680 have an overall passing percentage of less than 55%. There must be another factor that equates to the success because money does not equal succcess in this case.

* The third and final conclusion I will make (there are many more) is that the size of the school does help with the %Overall students passing. All schools with less than 2000 students average a 90% Overall succcess rat while schools over 2000 students show a less than 60% succcess rate. Students have more success in smaller populated schools

## My Work
    Most of my process was very straight forward. I completed all of the working testing along the way
    All code was generated by myself


Data for this dataset and instructions were generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.